NEXT-14203 - Add custom sorting for product listings (#137)
shopware/docs: guides/plugins/plugins/content/add-custom-sorting-product-listing.md

# Add custom sorting for product listing

## Overview

> Individual sortings are groups of sorting options by which you can sort product listings. The sortings are available in the storefront.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Individual sortings are groups of sorting options which you can use to sort product listings. The sortings are available in the storefront.
```

        // if you use multiple languages, you will need to update all of them
        $connection->executeStatement(
            'REPLACE INTO product_sorting_translation
             (`language_id`, `product_sorting_id`, `label`, `created_at`)
             VALUES
             (:language_id, :product_sorting_id, :label, :created_at)',
            [
                'language_id' => Uuid::fromHexToBytes(Defaults::LANGUAGE_SYSTEM),
                'product_sorting_id' => $myCustomSorting['id'],
                'label' => 'My Custom Sorting',
                'created_at' => (new \DateTime())->format(Defaults::STORAGE_DATE_TIME_FORMAT),
            ]
        );
    }

    public function updateDestructive(Connection $connection): void
    {
    }
}
```
{% endcode %}

## Create individual sorting at runtime

You can subscribe to the `ProductListingCriteriaEvent` to add a `ProductSortingEntity` as available sorting on the fly.
If you don't know how to do this, head over to our [Listening to events](../plugin-fundamentals/listening-to-events.md) guide.

{% hint type="warning" %}
While possible, it is not recommended adding an individual sorting at runtime. 

> If you just wish for your individual sorting to be not editable by users in the administration, create a migration and set the parameter locked to be true.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you just wish for your individual sorting to be not editable by users in the administration, create a migration and set the parameter `locked` to be true.
```
